# crontab-registry

# Index of content
* [Docker](#docker)
  * [Build image](#build-image)
    * [Build image for Production](#build-image-for-production)
    * [Build image for Development](#build-image-for-development)
  * [Container create](#container-create)
    * [Container create for Production](#container-create-for-production)
    * [Container create for Development](#container-create-for-development)
  * [Container start](#container-start)
  * [Container restart](#container-restart)
  * [Container destroy](#container-destroy)
  * [Container Stop & Destroy](#container-stop--destroy)
  * [Container run bash](#container-run-bash)
  * [Logs for container](#logs-for-container)
  * [Set secret on container](#set-secret-on-container)
  * [Full commands](#full-commands)
    * [Rebuild for development env](#rebuild-for-development-env)
  * [Environments variables](#environments-variables)
  * [Secrets in project](#secrets-in-project)

---


# Docker 
This section provides insights into fundamental Docker commands for efficient container management.

## Build image
Utilize a Dockerfile to define application configurations and dependencies, creating portable images for seamless deployment across diverse environments.

### Build image for Production
```shell
(source '.env' && docker image build -f ./docker/Dockerfile -t crontab-registry:production  .);
```


### Build image for Development
```shell
docker image build -f ./docker/Dockerfile.development -t crontab-registry:development .
```


## Container create
This section details the usage of the docker container create command with specific parameters for creating a container named "crontab-registry."

### Container create for Production
```shell
docker container create -it -p 18181:4500 --env-file=./.env -l com.salamonrafal.repository="crontab-registry" -l com.salamonrafal.environment="production" --name "crontab-registry" --restart always crontab-registry:production
```

### Container create for Development
```shell
docker container create -it -p 18181:4500 --env-file=./.env -l com.salamonrafal.repository="crontab-registry" -l com.salamonrafal.environment="development" --name "crontab-registry" --restart always crontab-registry:development
```


## Container start
This section outlines the usage of the docker container start command, focusing on initiating the "crontab-registry" container.

```shell
docker container start crontab-registry
```


## Container restart
This section provides a concise overview of utilizing the docker container restart command, emphasizing the restart action for the "crontab-registry" container.

```shell
docker container restart crontab-registry
```


## Container stop
This section provides a brief overview of using the docker container stop command, focusing on halting the "crontab-registry" container.

```shell
docker container stop crontab-registry
```


## Container destroy
This section offers a brief overview of using the docker container rm command, focusing on the removal of the "crontab-registry" container.

```shell
docker container rm crontab-registry
```

### Container Stop & Destroy
This section provides a concise overview of using the combination of docker container stop and docker container rm commands to halt and remove the "crontab-registry" container.

```shell
docker container stop crontab-registry && docker container rm crontab-registry
```


## Container run bash
This section provides a brief overview of using the docker exec command with the options -it to access the interactive shell of the "crontab-registry" container.
```shell
docker exec -it crontab-registry bash
```

## Logs for container:
Gain insights into container behavior by leveraging the docker logs command. This tool allows you to retrieve real-time or historical log data, aiding in troubleshooting, debugging, and performance analysis. Understand how to efficiently monitor and interpret the output generated by running containers.

```shell
docker logs crontab-registry
```

## Set secret on container
This section provides a brief overview of the command sequence designed to update configuration settings within the "crontab-registry" container using Docker commands.

```shell
( source '.env' && docker exec -it crontab-registry \
  dotnet user-secrets set "CrontabRegistryDatabaseOptions:ConnectionString" "${CRONTAB_REGISTRY_MONGODB_CS_SECRETS}" \
  --project ./src/CrontabRegistry/Application/Application.csproj && docker container restart crontab-registry );
```

This sequence is designed to dynamically update the MongoDB connection string within the "crontab-registry" container, ensuring seamless integration of configuration changes without disrupting the overall application functionality.

## Full commands

### Rebuild for development env
This section details a command sequence designed to stop and remove the "crontab-registry" container, followed by rebuilding the container with updated configurations.

```shell
docker container stop crontab-registry && docker container rm crontab-registry; \
  (source '.env' \
    && docker image build -f ./docker/Dockerfile.development -t crontab-registry:development . \
    && docker container create -it -p 18181:4500 --env-file=./.env -l com.salamonrafal.repository="crontab-registry" -l com.salamonrafal.environment="development" --name "crontab-registry" --restart always crontab-registry:development \
    && docker container start crontab-registry \
  );
```

This sequence provides a comprehensive approach to update, rebuild, and restart the "crontab-registry" container with the latest configurations.


# Environments variables
* DOTENT_APP_CrontabRegistryDatabaseOptions__ConnectionString - You can pass to your application connection string to MongoDb
* ASPNETCORE_ENVIRONMENT - You can set for which environment you deploy code. Options: Development, Production


# Secrets in project 
Never commit variables such as passwords or other sensitive data to the repository. 
You can handle such data in several ways:
* Through environment variables (used in this project for deploying the application to a server), and you can read more about them [here](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/aspnet/core/fundamentals/configuration/?view=aspnetcore-8.0#non-prefixed-environment-variables)
* Using user-secrets in dotnet, which is very useful during the development and testing phases. More information can be found [here](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/aspnet/core/security/app-secrets?view=aspnetcore-8.0&tabs=linux)
* By utilizing an application like Vault or a similar tool (the best solution where sensitive data is not stored directly without encryption). You can learn more [here](https://developer.hashicorp.com/vault/docs/what-is-vault)
